[IMP] CRM: lost opportunities update (#12151)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/sales/crm/pipeline/lost_opportunities.rst

==================
Lost opportunities
==================

Not every opportunity results in a successful sale. To keep the pipeline up-to-date, *lost*
opportunities need to be identified. Specifying why an opportunity was lost helps identify recurring
issues, reveal coaching opportunities, and can assist with improving overall sales strategy.

.. note::

>    :doc:`Merging lost opportunities <merge_similar>` with active ones will pull them back into the
>     pipeline.

Reviewer: Remove this one space indent, which is causing the text to format as a [definition list](https://docutils.sourceforge.io/docs/ref/rst/restructuredtext.html#definition-lists).

Tip: enable the **Render Whitespace** setting in VS Code.
![Screenshot 2025-02-27 at 4 30 28 PM](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1137a0dc-14cf-49be-abf0-9fa2da462f8f)

Doing so allows you to see the number of space characters dont match ;)
![Screenshot 2025-02-27 at 4 33 32 PM](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e25159c4-f060-4fae-b7c1-d1e579617d0b)

```suggestion
   :doc:`Merging lost opportunities <merge_similar>` with active ones will pull them back into the
   pipeline.
```

=========================

Not every opportunity results in a successful sale. To keep the pipeline up-to-date, *lost*

> opportunities need to be identified. Specifying why an opportunity was lost helps identify recurring issues, reveal coaching opportunities, and can assist with improving overall sales strategy.

Reviewer 2: This line is a little too long—try keeping it as close to 100 characters as possible without exceeding it. 
1. You can run `make review` command locally to spot these! For example:
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c30d1d00-cedc-4541-9130-f759ae03f633)

2. To wrap the sentences quickly, I use Rewrap, the VScode extension.
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/30740024-d8e9-4cd4-894c-54fd228a24b3)
In the extension settings, set the Wrapping Column to 100 characters
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/83c9a95c-60c9-4074-95ca-60ce1ed3ad41)

Author: I'm trying out the VSCode setting that says it wraps at 100 characters. Let me know if this isn't the case

.. seealso::
   :doc:`Merging lost opportunities with active ones will pull them back into the pipeline. <merge_similar>`

> 

Reviewer 2: extra line (:
```suggestion
```

Author: Updated

Mark an opportunity as lost
===========================

To mark an opportunity as lost, first open the :menuselection:`CRM` app, then select an opportunity
from the pipeline by selecting its corresponding Kanban card. This reveals that opportunity's
detail form.

> Then select :guilabel:`Lost`, located at the top of the opportunity's detail form.

Reviewer 2: optional for brevity
```suggestion
Then select :guilabel:`Lost`, located at the top of the form.
```

Author: Done

Reviewer 2: Hey! I noticed this suggestion wasn’t implemented 😮—no worries at all since it was optional! Just wanted to check in because if the suggestion is still here, it might mean you didn’t use GitHub’s 'apply suggestion' feature.

Just trying to be helpful! 😊 Sam made a great doc about this process—it walks through how to accept reviewer changes directly, commit them, and then pull them down locally instead of making manual edits.

Here’s the link in case it’s helpful: [Google Doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1InFXc53DEivOIRqUUmBo-8TGbPr9V-n4aL7porcLArk/edit?tab=t.yoemgnehx0xj#heading=h.5djmvzlfrgfq)

Let me know if you have any questions!

This opens the :guilabel:`Mark Lost` pop-up window. From the :guilabel:`Lost Reason` drop-down menu,
choose an existing lost reason. If none of these are appropriate, create a new one by entering
it into the :guilabel:`Lost Reason` field, then select :guilabel:`Create`.

Additional notes and comments can be added below the lost reason in the designated
:guilabel:`Closing Note` field.

.. tip::
   Neither the :guilabel:`Lost Reason` field, nor the :guilabel:`Closing Note` field on the
   :guilabel:`Mark Lost` pop-up window are required. However, including this
   information can help with traceability, accountability, and reporting purposes.

When all the desired information has been entered in the :guilabel:`Mark Lost` pop-up window, select
:guilabel:`Mark as Lost`.

.. image:: lost_opportunities/lost-opps-lost-reason.png
   :alt: Lost reasons popup with sample reasons.

After selecting :guilabel:`Mark as Lost`, a red :guilabel:`Lost` banner is added to the upper-right
corner of the opportunity.

.. image:: lost_opportunities/lost-banner.png
   :alt: A lost opportunity with the lost banner added.

.. note::

>    Marking an opportunity as lost will archive it and set its :guilabel:`Probability` to 0.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Marking an opportunity as lost archives it and sets its :guilabel:`Probability` to 0.
```

=========================

Not every opportunity results in a successful sale. To keep the pipeline up-to-date, *lost*
opportunities need to be identified. Specifying why an opportunity was lost helps identify recurring
issues, reveal coaching opportunities, and can assist with improving overall sales strategy.

.. seealso::
   :doc:`Merging lost opportunities <merge_similar>` with active ones will pull them back into the

>     pipeline.

Reviewer 2: Just a heads-up—'See also' block items are usually just a few words long, with the entire text as a link. This helps avoid weird formatting issues.

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/faf93680-551b-498d-837e-5901053c560a)

I attached a screenshot showing how non-link text gets bolded inconsistently on the first and second lines.

We have a few options to fix this:

- Make the whole sentence a link (like you did before)
- Shorten the link text to about 5-6 words
- Switch the 'See also' block to a note admonition instead

Let me know what you think! 😊

Mark an opportunity as lost
===========================

To mark an opportunity as lost, first open the :menuselection:`CRM` app, then select an opportunity

> from the pipeline by selecting its corresponding Kanban card. This reveals that opportunity's

Reviewer 3: Note:
There was nothing wrong with the prior version
We do not need to make superficial wording edits like this.

> from the pipeline by selecting its corresponding Kanban cardå. This reveals that opportunity's

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
from the pipeline by selecting its corresponding Kanban card. This reveals that opportunity's
```

detail form.

> Then select :guilabel:`Lost`, located at the top of the form.

Reviewer 3: Similar comment to previous PR
**Lost** is a button, we "click" it (not "select")

.. image:: lost_opportunities/lost-opps-lost-button.png
   :alt: Buttons from the top of an opportunity record with the lost button emphasized.

This opens the :guilabel:`Mark Lost` pop-up window. From the :guilabel:`Lost Reason` drop-down menu,

> choose an existing lost reason. If none of these are appropriate, create a new one by entering it
> into the :guilabel:`Lost Reason` field, then select :guilabel:`Create`.

Reviewer 3: Pretty sure this sentence and others are missing "and" conjunctions? 
"If" statements ideally follow with a quick "then" consequence.
Another example of a sentence that did not need to be rewritten.

```suggestion
choose an existing lost reason. If none of these are appropriate, then create a new one by entering it
into the :guilabel:`Lost Reason` field, and then clicking :guilabel:`Create`.
```

> Mark an opportunity as lost

Author: Updated intro and added a callout for merging lost opportunities

===========================

> To mark an opportunity as lost, first open the :menuselection:`CRM app`, then select an opportunity

Author: Updated

> from the pipeline by selecting on its corresponding Kanban card. This reveals that opportunity's

Reviewer 2: Also, something I noticed:

For brevity, let's drop "on" when selecting or clicking something. I suggested removing one earlier, but let's go ahead and apply that throughout the doc as well. What do you think? 😊

> from the pipeline by selecting on its corresponding Kanban card. This reveals that opportunity's

Author: I agree with this. I tried scrubbing "select on" and its variations, but I see I've missed some :L

> from the pipeline by selecting on its corresponding Kanban card. This reveals that opportunity's

Author: Update

This opens the :guilabel:`Mark Lost` pop-up window. From the :guilabel:`Lost Reason` drop-down menu,
choose an existing lost reason. If none of these are appropriate, create a new one by entering
it into the :guilabel:`Lost Reason` field, then select :guilabel:`Create`.

Additional notes and comments can be added below the lost reason in the designated
:guilabel:`Closing Note` field.

.. tip::
   Neither the :guilabel:`Lost Reason` field, nor the :guilabel:`Closing Note` field on the
   :guilabel:`Mark Lost` pop-up window are required. However, including this
   information can help with traceability, accountability, and reporting purposes.

When all the desired information has been entered in the :guilabel:`Mark Lost` pop-up window, select
:guilabel:`Mark as Lost`.

.. image:: lost_opportunities/lost-opps-lost-reason.png
   :alt: Lost reasons popup with sample reasons.

After selecting :guilabel:`Mark as Lost`, a red :guilabel:`Lost` banner is added to the upper-right
corner of the opportunity.

.. image:: lost_opportunities/lost-banner.png
   :alt: A lost opportunity with the lost banner added.

.. note::

>    Marking an opportunity as lost will archive it and set its probability to 0.

Reviewer 2: The guilabel should be used for Probability because it's a UI element we're directly referring to on the screen.
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/24f6a475-cd00-43be-a8be-27adbc4b53e6)

Author: Added this back

To edit an existing lost reason:

#. Select on the reason to be edited to highlight it.
#. Change the selected lost reason by editing the :guilabel:`Description` field.
#. When finished, select :guilabel:`Save` in the upper-left corner.

To create a new lost reason:

#. Select :guilabel:`New` in the upper-left corner of the :guilabel:`Lost Reasons` page.
#. Type the new lost reason in the :guilabel:`Description` field.

> #. When finished, select :guilabel:`Save`.

Reviewer 2: Reminder that our team prefers paragraph form when giving navigational instructions (:

Author: :s all updated

View lost opportunities
=======================

> To retrieve lost opportunities in Odoo **CRM**, open the :menuselection:`CRM app`. On the main

Reviewer 2: Optional suggestion for brevity

```suggestion
To retrieve lost opportunities in the **CRM** app, go to the main
```

Note for the future:
- When referring to an app name, we bold it
- When we're giving instructions to go to an app, we use menuselection. For example, "To do blabla, go to the :menuselection:`App`."

Author: Updated

> To retrieve lost opportunities in Odoo **CRM**, open the :menuselection:`CRM app`. On the main
> :guilabel:`Pipeline` dashboard, select the :guilabel:`Search...` bar at the top of the page, then

Reviewer 2: Alternatively, we can say, 
```suggestion
To retrieve lost opportunities, go :menuselection:`CRM app --> Sales --> My Pipeline` and, select the search bar at the top of the page. Then
```

To create a new lost reason, or edit an existing one, navigate to :menuselection:`CRM app -->
Configuration --> Lost Reasons`.

To edit an existing lost reason, select the reason to be edited to highlight it. Change the selected lost reason by editing the :guilabel:`Description` field. When finished, select :guilabel:`Save` in the upper-left corner.

To create a new lost reason, select :guilabel:`New` in the upper-left corner of the :guilabel:`Lost Reasons` page. Type the new lost reason in the :guilabel:`Description` field. When finished, select :guilabel:`Save`.

View lost opportunities
=======================

To retrieve lost opportunities, go :menuselection:`CRM app --> Sales --> My Pipeline` and, select the search bar at the top of the page. Then
remove all of the default filters.

.. image:: lost_opportunities/lost-opps-lost-filter.png
   :alt: Search bar with lost filter emphasized.

> Open the :guilabel:`Filters` drop-down menu by selecting the :icon:`fa-caret-down`` :guilabel:`(triangle pointed down)`

Reviewer 2: Could you double-check for me whether your Vale linter is activated? Here's mine, telling me to use a different descriptor:

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2932c73c-349a-427b-ba17-170d99694b2e)

```suggestion
Open the :guilabel:`Filters` drop-down menu by selecting the :icon:`fa-caret-down` :guilabel:`(dropdown)`
```

To create a new lost reason, or edit an existing one, navigate to :menuselection:`CRM app -->
Configuration --> Lost Reasons`.

To edit an existing lost reason, click the reason to be edited to highlight it. From here, change
the selected lost reason by editing the :guilabel:`Description` field.

To create a new lost reason, click :guilabel:`New` in the upper-left corner of the :guilabel:`Lost
Reasons` page. Then, type the new lost reason in the :guilabel:`Description` field.

View lost opportunities
=======================

> To retrieve lost opportunities, go :menuselection:`CRM app --> Sales --> My Pipeline`, then
> click on the search bar at the top of the page, and then remove all of the default filters.

Reviewer: Early line break :)
```suggestion
To retrieve lost opportunities, go :menuselection:`CRM app --> Sales --> My Pipeline`, then click on
the search bar at the top of the page, and then remove all of the default filters.
```

.. image:: lost_opportunities/lost-opps-lost-filter.png
   :alt: Search bar with lost filter emphasized.

> Open the :guilabel:`Filters` drop-down menu by clicking the :icon:`fa-caret-down`
> :guilabel:`(dropdown)` icon to the right of the search bar to open the drop-down menu containing
> :guilabel:`Filters`, :guilabel:`Group By`, and :guilabel:`Favorites` options, designated into
> respective columns.

Reviewer 3: This section's instruction is not complete and uses incorrect terminology (e.g. it's not a Filters "drop-down menu")

Here's my suggestion to round out the instruction and include the preferred filtering method we like to use internally.

```suggestion
Next, open the dashboard mega menu by clicking the :icon:`fa-caret-down` :guilabel:`(dropdown)` icon
(to the right of the search bar) and select the default :guilabel:`Lost` option located under the
left-side :guilabel:`Filters` column. Doing so will quickly filter opportunities that are no longer
active.

.. tip::
   For more granular control this filter, instead of clicking the :guilabel:`Lost` option, click
   :guilabel:`Add Custom Filter` instead, to open the :guilabel:`Add Custom Filter` pop-up window.
   Here, configure the base logic to read :guilabel:`Active` *is not* `set`, and add more filters
   as needed with the necessary any/all parameters.
```

Sort opportunities by lost reason
---------------------------------

> To filter opportunities by a specific lost reason, select the :icon:`fa-caret-down`` :guilabel:`(triangle pointed down)`

Reviewer 2: Extra backtick (: 

I'll flag this one, but be sure to remove any extra backticks in the other icon tags that follow as well! 😊

```suggestion
To filter opportunities by a specific lost reason, select the :icon:`fa-caret-down` :guilabel:`(triangle pointed down)`
```

Also, I intentionally left the icon descriptor unchanged. 

This is what I do, so you don't have to, but when implementing suggestions, I like to make edits in the github UI so i don't lose track of them later. To do that, I directly edit my reviewer's suggestion and accept it. 
For example:
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/68a86daf-1acf-4636-b7c4-5b46eade8714)
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fa79a11b-1a69-4082-90ae-a1cc47052141)

Author: Found the rest. For tracking the changes, does that also change the file?

   this operator makes it possible to choose multiple lost reasons in the third field.

   .. image:: lost_opportunities/multiple-lost-reasons.png
      :alt: Add Custom Filter pop-up with multiple lost reasons selected.

Restore lost opportunities
==========================

To restore a lost opportunity, open the :menuselection:`CRM app` to reveal the :guilabel:`Pipeline`
dashboard. Or, navigate to :menuselection:`CRM app --> Sales --> My Pipeline`. From here, select the

> :guilabel:`🔻(triangle pointed down)` icon to the right of the :guilabel:`Search...` bar to open the

Author: All updated

.. tip::
   To see all opportunities in the database, remove the default :guilabel:`My Pipeline` filter from
   the search bar.

Then, select the Kanban card of the lost opportunity to restore, and on the form, select :guilabel:`Restore` in the upper-left corner.

.. image:: lost_opportunities/lost-opps-restore.png
   :alt: Lost opportunity with emphasis on the Restore button.

Restore multiple opportunities at once
--------------------------------------

To restore multiple opportunities at once, navigate to the main :guilabel:`Pipeline` dashboard in
the **CRM** app, open the :guilabel:`Filters` drop-down menu, and select the :guilabel:`Lost` option.

Next, select the list view option, represented by the :guilabel:`≣ (list)` icon in the upper-right
corner. This places all the opportunities from the :guilabel:`Pipeline` page in a list view.
With the list view chosen, select the checkbox to the left of each opportunity to be restored.

> Once the desired opportunities have been selected, select the :guilabel:`⚙️ Actions` drop-down menu

Reviewer 2: The gear is also an icon! Here, we don't need a descriptor, so we'd simply have 

```suggestion
Once the desired opportunities have been selected, select the :icon:`name of ⚙️ ` :guilabel:`Actions` drop-down menu
```

Note: I didn't look up the css class name of the gear, so you'll have to find it in your edits :wink:

Author: found em ;#

.. tip::
   To see all opportunities in the database, remove the default :guilabel:`My Pipeline` filter from
   the search bar.

From the lost opportunity's detail form, click :guilabel:`Restore` in the upper-left corner. Doing
so removes the red :guilabel:`Lost` banner from the opportunity form, signifying the opportunity has
been restored.

.. image:: lost_opportunities/lost-opps-restore.png
   :alt: Lost opportunity with emphasis on the Restore button.

Restore multiple opportunities at once
--------------------------------------

To restore multiple opportunities at once, navigate to the main :guilabel:`Pipeline` dashboard in

> the **CRM** app, open the :guilabel:`Filters` drop-down menu, and select the :guilabel:`Lost`

Reviewer 3: terminology: it is not a filters drop-down menu (it used to be tho!)

upper-right corner. Doing so places all the opportunities from the :guilabel:`Pipeline` page in a
list view. With the list view chosen, select the checkbox to the left of each opportunity to be
restored.

Once the desired opportunities have been selected, click the :icon:`fa-cog` :guilabel:`Actions`
drop-down menu at the top of the :guilabel:`Pipeline` page. From the :icon:`fa-cog`
:guilabel:`(Actions)` drop-down menu, select :guilabel:`Unarchive`.

Doing so removes those selected opportunities from the :guilabel:`Pipeline` page because they no
longer fit the :guilabel:`Lost` filter criteria. Delete the :guilabel:`Lost` filter from the search
bar to reveal these newly-restored opportunities.

.. image:: lost_opportunities/lost-opps-unarchive.png
   :alt: Action button from list view with the Unarchive option emphasized.

Manage lost leads
=================

If *Leads* are enabled on a database, then they can be marked as *lost* in the same manner as
opportunities. Leads use the same :ref:`lost reasons <crm/lost-reasons>` as opportunities.

.. note::
   To enable leads, navigate to :menuselection:`CRM app --> Configuration --> Settings` and check

>    the :guilabel:`Leads` checkbox. This adds a new :guilabel:`Leads` menu to the header menu bar at

Reviewer 3: terms (**Leads** is not a menu)
```suggestion
   the :guilabel:`Leads` checkbox. This adds a new :guilabel:`Leads` menu item to the app's nav bar at
```

.. tip::
   To see all opportunities in the database, remove the default :guilabel:`My Pipeline` filter from
   the search bar.

Then, select the Kanban card of the lost opportunity to restore, and on the form, select
:guilabel:`Restore` in the upper-left corner.

.. image:: lost_opportunities/lost-opps-restore.png
   :alt: Lost opportunity with emphasis on the Restore button.

Restore multiple opportunities at once
--------------------------------------

To restore multiple opportunities at once, navigate to the main :guilabel:`Pipeline` dashboard in
the **CRM** app, open the :guilabel:`Filters` drop-down menu, and select the :guilabel:`Lost`
option.

Next, select the list view option, represented by the :icon:`fa-bars` :guilabel:`(list)` icon in the
upper-right corner. This places all the opportunities from the :guilabel:`Pipeline` page in a list
view. With the list view chosen, select the checkbox to the left of each opportunity to be restored.

> Once the desired opportunities have been selected, select the :icon:`fa-cog` :guilabel:`(Actions)`

Reviewer 2: No need for parentheses here since the button label is '⚙️ Actions'! 😊 We only use parentheses when icons appear on their own in the UI—this helps readers identify broken icons if their browser can’t render them. But since this button has both an icon and text, we’re all good without the extra descriptor!
```suggestion
Once the desired opportunities have been selected, select the :icon:`fa-cog` :guilabel:`Actions`
```

   To see all opportunities in the database, remove the default :guilabel:`My Pipeline` filter from
   the :guilabel:`Search...` bar.

Select on the Kanban card of the desired lost opportunity to restore, which opens that

> opportunity's detail form.

Author: Updated with your rewrite

To mark a lead as lost, navigate to :menuselection:`CRM app --> Leads`, and select a lead from the
list. Doing so reveals that lead's detail form.

> Then, select :guilabel:`Lost`, located at the top of the lead's detail form.

Reviewer 2: There's an opportunity to shorten some of these sentences:
- "This adds a new Leads menu to the header menu bar at the top of the page."
- "Doing so reveals that lead’s detail form. Then, select Lost, located at the top of the lead’s detail form."

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1a4bab1a-eedb-495f-8d88-fe643ce97789)

Author: Updated
